---
layout: post
title: "Ruby: Nil"
---

> Following my previous posts with basic Javascript aspects, like
> [context]({% post_url 2013-08-12-js-context %}) and
> [variable hoisting]({% post_url 2013-09-04-javascript-variable-hoisting %}),
> I'll try to write some basic concepts of the Ruby language. I decided to
> start with something that usually confuses new Ruby users (sometimes they
> don't even know that they are confused, by the way): the Ruby `nil` object.

In Java we're used to treat `null` as a special value or even a keyword. In
Java, `null` holds a value which no valid point will ever refer to. So, we
usually do comparations like this:

```java
if (person != null) {
    person.walk();
}
```

Well, we have to check if if the object really exists, i.e., if it points to
something that isn't `null`. Invoking methods in a `null` object will throw
the commonly seen `NullPointerException`, which, according to my college
professor, is a programmer mistake, **always**.

Anyway, in Ruby, there is also a way to check if an object is `null`, or, more
specifically, `nil`:

```ruby
unless person.nil?
  person.walk
end
# or with inline conditionals:
person.walk unless person.nil?
```

What the heck? We just invoked a method in a possibly `nil` object?
Yeap. That is possible due to a really neat implementation of the
[Null Object Pattern][null]. Basically and grossly, instead of
having a `null` reference to convey absence of an object (like our
non-existent `person` object), the language uses an object with some
useful methods, but no real behavior (for example, Ruby will not automagically
create a `NilPersonClass` (as the pattern itself suggests)
with all your method signatures with no implementation).

Actually, `nil` is a singleton instance of the `NilClass`[1][NilClass],
and, as you can see, this class extends `Object` and both of them
implements the method `nil?`, while only the `NilClass` implementation of
`nil?` return true.

So, we can call `nil?` in any object, and, in Ruby, everything is an object,
so, we can call `nil?` in everything:

```ruby
nil.class # NilClass
10.nil? # false
nil.nil? # true
nil == nil # true
```

Also following a similar behavior, we have the `true` and `false` statements,
which are singleton instances of `TrueClass` and `FalseClass` respectively.

[null]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Null_Object_pattern
[NilClass]: http://www.ruby-doc.org/core-2.0/NilClass.html
