---
layout: post
title: "2013"
category: posts
---

So, just like in [2012]({% post_url 2013-01-12-2012 %}), I decided to write a
little review of this year that end.

Unlikely 2012, 2013 was really calmer. Besides some side projects not yet
revealed to the public (but I hope I can reveal soon), not much has changed.

- I was promoted in my current Job;
- I improved my skills in several languages;
- Bought my first Mac (Macbook Pro mid 2012);
- Was robbed: The macbook (which I had for 2 months), my old Dell Inspirion and
my wife's HP laptop;
- Bought a new Mac (Macbook Pro late 2012);
- Bought a Kindle (probably one of my bests acquisitions ever);
- Bought a new Acoustic Guitar;
- As you can imagine, I now have a debt in bank, which I will destroy this year
(the debt, not the bank -yet-);
- Opensourced several projects;
- Worked with some friends in other projects;
- First Flight (to Sao Paulo, twice);
- Participated in 24 pull requests for christmas, but wasn't able to do all
the 24 pull requests;
- Started learning a few languages, such as Scala and SML;
- Attended to some events in Joinville - SC, one in Florianópolis - SC and
one in Sao Paulo - SP;
- Started training Muay Thai.

So, is basically this. As I already said: **calmer**. But I want this to change
again in 2014. I even created a
[small list of things I want to accomplish in 2014](https://github.com/caarlos0/goals-2014)
to help me stay focused, let's see if it will work.

Well, I wish for you all an awesome year and hope you accomplish everything you
want!
