---
layout: post
title: "Post ideas"
---

## dissembling dotfiles into multiple antigen modules;

cite my projects and shit.

## unit testing shell script

talk about how to unit test shell scripts

## not perfect (but delivered) vs perfect WIP

## 161 days of contributions

talk about how it was to work on stuff every day for 161 days.
Set a challenge to do it with open source for, say, 30 days.

## open source is not entirely about politics

talk about how its way more about marketing, learning, doing cool stuff than
politics (free stuff and shit)

## you dont know shell script

do something like that you dont know js

## the old new pipe

a thing that exist on unix since ever and now also on gulp and shit and people
go like crazy about it like it is the new big fucking innovative thing

## ruby vs java et al

why am I coding more in java and less in ruby

## backend, frontend, fullstack... what?

no, really, what am I?

## devops

more dev than ops, not really hard to accomplish, pretty useful and the daily
work

## integrating with brazilian government stuff

drop a few lines about this bullshit as a service

## the no patterns pattern

or how people follow patterns creating more patterns that will cover
all the thing the later didn't cover. This is somewhat ironic.

## flamewars

explain why I just went from a linuxfag to just a random guy who uses unix-based
systems and drops a few jokes about how windows sucks, instead of trying to
convince each and everyone to use an actual operating system.

## recommended books

Recommend a few books by the end of the year, maybe.

## playing with shellscripts on my vacations

- unit tests
- shellcheck
